# Chapter 1

**Understand different ways of delivering cloud computing resources.**
Computing resources can be allocated as individual VMs or clusters of VMs that you manage. You can also use managed kubernetes cluster (GKE) that relieve you of some of the operational overhead of managing a kubernetes cluster. Serverless computing options relieve users of any server management. Instead, developers run their code in a containerized environment managed by the cloud provider or in a compute platform designed for short-running code. Developers and DevOps professionals have the most control over resources when they manage their own servers and clusters. Managed services and serverless options are good choices when you do not need control over the computing environment and will get more value from not having to manage compute resources.

**Understand the different forms of cloud storage and when to use them.**
There are four main categories of storage: object, file, block, and in-memory caches. Object storage is designed for highly reliable and durable storage of objects, such as images or data sets. Object storage has more limited functionality than file system–based storage systems. File system–based storage provides hierarchical directory storage for files and supports common operating system and file system functions. File system services provide network-accessible file systems that can be accessed by multiple servers. Block storage is used for storing data on disks. File systems and databases make use of block storage systems. Block storage is used with persistent storage devices, such as SSDs and HDDs. Caches are in-memory data stores used to minimize the latency of retrieving data. They do not provide persistent storage and should never be considered a “system of truth.”

**Understand the differences between running an IT environment on-premise or in the cloud.**
Running an IT environment in the cloud has several advantages, including short-term rental of resources, pay-as-you-go model, elastic resource allocation, and the ability to use specialised services. The unit cost of cloud resources, such as the cost per minute of a mid- tier server, may be higher in the cloud than on-premise. It is important to understand the cost model of your cloud provider so you can make decisions about the most efficient distribution of workload between cloud and on-premise resources.